docs: document upstream MFA carry-over for OIDC social sign-in (#2507)
ory/docs: docs/kratos/social-signin/93_upstream-mfa.mdx

with a strong factor.

## How it works

Every time a user signs in or registers through an OIDC provider, Ory reads two optional claims from the upstream ID token:

- `acr` — the [Authentication Context Class Reference](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDToken) reported by
  the provider. It tells the relying party which authentication policy was satisfied (for example `urn:okta:loa:2fa:any` or
  `http://schemas.openid.net/pape/policies/2007/06/multi-factor`).
- `amr` — the [Authentication Methods References](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8176.html) array. Each entry names a factor
  type the user completed (for example `pwd`, `mfa`, `otp`, `hwk`, `fpt`).

You configure two allowlists per provider:

- `aal2_acr_values` — if the upstream `acr` claim matches any value in this list, Ory marks the resulting session as AAL2.
- `aal2_amr_values` — if any entry in the upstream `amr` array matches a value in this list, Ory marks the resulting session as
  AAL2.

When neither list matches, the session stays at AAL1. If your project enforces `session.whoami.required_aal=highest_available`,

> the user is then prompted for a Kratos-managed second factor as usual. Both fields are optional; leaving them empty preserves the
> current behavior of always issuing AAL1 sessions through this provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the user is then prompted for a Kratos-managed second factor as usual. Both fields are optional; leaving them empty causes Kratos to always issue AAL1 sessions through this provider.
```

| Google                                                                                                    | No           | No                    | Google's OIDC implementation does not issue `acr` or `amr`.                                                                                                        |
| Apple (Sign in with Apple)                                                                                | No           | No                    | Not part of Apple's documented ID-token schema.                                                                                                                    |
| Facebook, GitHub, GitLab, Discord, Slack, Spotify, Amazon, LinkedIn, Yandex, VK, NetID, Dingtalk, Patreon | No           | No                    | OAuth2-only or non-standard OIDC; no `acr` or `amr` surfaced.                                                                                                      |

You can still configure the allowlist for any provider — Ory simply records the upstream values and never matches when the

> provider doesn't emit them.

Reviewer: This will go out of sync fast; let's remove the list and instead just mention checking the provider's documentation for the correct values.

```json
{
  "id": "...",
  "active": true,
  "authenticator_assurance_level": "aal2",
  "authentication_methods": [
    {
      "method": "oidc",
      "aal": "aal2",
      "completed_at": "2026-04-13T08:23:19Z",
      "provider": "my-okta",
      "upstream_acr": "urn:okta:loa:2fa:any",
      "upstream_amr": ["pwd", "mfa"]
    }
  ],
  "identity": {
    /* ... */
  }
}
```

When the upstream `acr` or `amr` does not match the configured allowlists, the session stays at AAL1 and the upstream values are
still recorded under `upstream_acr` / `upstream_amr` for auditing.

## What this does not do

- It does not call the upstream provider to perform MFA on demand. Ory only inspects what the provider already reported.
- It does not change how Kratos-managed second factors (TOTP, WebAuthn, lookup secrets) work. Local step-up still applies when the
  upstream did not satisfy the configured allowlist.
- It does not retroactively re-classify existing sessions. Only sessions issued after the new configuration becomes active are
  evaluated against the allowlists.

## Troubleshooting

> **The session is still AAL1 after a successful login.** Check that the upstream provider actually emits the claim. You can inspect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The session is still AAL1 after a successful login: Check that the upstream provider actually emits the claim. You can inspect
```

the raw ID token claims from the Jsonnet data mapper through `std.extVar('claims').raw_claims.acr` and
`std.extVar('claims').raw_claims.amr`. If the provider doesn't surface the claim, request it explicitly through `acr_values` or
`requested_claims`.

> **The `upstream_acr` field is empty even though the upstream sent it.** Make sure your provider config has

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `upstream_acr` field is empty even though the upstream sent it: Make sure your provider config has
```

`claims_source: id_token` (the default) or, if you set `claims_source: userinfo`, that the userinfo endpoint also returns the
`acr` claim. Some providers only include `acr`/`amr` in the ID token.

> **The session is AAL2 but the user never completed MFA.** Audit the configured allowlists carefully. An `acr` value such as `0` or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The session is AAL2 but the user never completed MFA: Audit the configured allowlists carefully. An `acr` value such as `0` or
```
